<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE TimeML SYSTEM "TimeML.dtd">
<TimeML>
Upcoming SlideShare      Loading in … 5   1. Name – Madhvendra verma Roll no – 1329040058 Mechanical 3rd year section (A) Guided by- Prof. Pradeep Gupta Hod (mechanical department ) ABES IT GHAZIABAD 1  2. Contents  Introduction  Types of engines  Engine Component  Working of 6 stroke engine Comparison of 6 stroke with 4 stroke engine  Advantages and disadvantages Conclusion  Reference 2  3. Engine is a device which transform one form of energy into another form. The six stroke engine “Using water” was developed By Brush Crower in <TIMEX3 tid="t1" type="DATE" value="2006">2006</TIMEX3>. A six stroke engine derived its name from the fact that it is a mixture of two and four stroke engine. The six stroke engine is a type of internal combustion engine based on the four stroke engine , but its additional two stroke make it more efficient and reduce emission. Types of six stroke engines 1. Griffin six stroke engine. 2. Bajulaz six stroke engine. 3. Crower six stroke engine. 4. Velozeta six stroke engine. Six stroke engine 3  4. 4 Actual Prototype of SIX Stroke engine  5. ENGINE IC ENGINE EC ENGINE Types Of Engines IC – Internal combustion engine EC – External combustion engine 5  6.  The internal combustion is an engine in which the burning of a fuel occur in a confined space called “ IC ENGINE’.  An external combustion engine is heat engine where an(internal) working fluid is compressed and heated by combustion of an external fuel through the engine wall or heat exchanger. 6  7. 7 Component of engine  8. 8 Alternators – it is used to convert the mechanical energy into electrical energy. Camshaft – it is used to controls the opening and closing of valves. Time belt – a belt connected to both camshaft and crankshaft ensuring that they work in time with each other. Sparkplug – it is a component to initiate the combustion process in spark ignition engine and is usually located on the cylinder.  9. 9  10. Working of six stroke engine In first stroke (suction stroke)  Intake of pure air in the cylinder.  The valve is open. 10  11. Second stroke (compression stroke) Compression of pure air in the heating chamber. Both valves are closed 11  12. Third stroke (power stroke) In this stroke the piston moves downward and the power transmitted from piston to wheel. Both valves are closed. 12  13. Fourth stroke (exhaust stroke) Exhaust of the combustion gases. The exhaust valve is open. 13  14. Fifth stroke (secondary power stroke) 14 In this stage water is injected by an Injector in the form of fine droplets and the water converted into steam. Both valves are closed.  15. Sixth stroke (secondary exhaust stroke) At this stage water is injected by an Injector in the form of fine droplets. Exhaust valve open. 15  16. Comparison Of Six Stroke Engine With Four Stroke Engine 16 In otto cylce ,there are two adiabatic processes 1- Adiabatic compression 2- Adiabatic expansion And One constant volume heat Addition process and one constant  17. 17t The dual cycle consist of the following operations- 1- Adiabatic Compression 2- Addition of heat at constant volume 3- Addition of heat at constant pressure 4- Adiabatic expansion 5- ejection of heat at constant volume The heat is added partly at constant volume and partly at constant pressure; The advantage of which is that more time is available to fuel for combustion.  18. 18 parameters Four stroke engine Six stroke engine Strokes It consist a 4 strokes . It consist a 6 strokes . ( add 2 additional strokes) Thermal efficiency Low high Weight Low High Fuel consumptions High Low Power Low High Example- Car ,buses etc. Motor boat, high cost bikes(ex –Ducati).  19. Advantages of six stroke engine  The thermal efficiency reaching 40-50%.  Fuel consumption reduce by more than 40%.  Reduction of chemical, noise and thermal pollution.  Increased torque and power output. 19  20. Disadvantage of six stroke Engine  Complex Head Design  Complex Cam Design For Exhaust (Due to two exhaust strokes).  Heavier Engine (Due to combustion engine).  Manufacturing of essential part is difficult. Weight increases. 20  21. conclusion  In a six stroke engine the fuel consumption is less. Better fuel economy compared with a conventional four-stroke design. Torque is increase by 35% and efficiency increased by the same. It reduces the weight and complexity of the engines head by as much as 50%. The concept of Six Stroke Engine seems to be rather eco-friendly and low fuel consuming which can fulfill the needs of near future. 21  22. Reference 1)www.wikipedia.com/wiki/six stroke 2)IC engine books. 3)www.bajulazsa.com 4)www.quora.com Reffered Date – (21/08/<TIMEX3 tid="t2" type="DATE" value="2015">2015</TIMEX3>) 22  23. <TIMEX3 tid="t3" type="DATE" value="0023">23</TIMEX3>
</TimeML>
