<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE TimeML SYSTEM "TimeML.dtd">
<TimeML>
Just <TIMEX3 tid="t1" type="DATE" value="PAST_REF">recently</TIMEX3>, there was another fascinating program on TV on what is known as the Bermuda Triangle. Having flown in the area many times in the past, sometimes alone, I had only a vague awareness of its scary reputation at that time. 
 
Years ago, I received a gift of a book titled, “The Bermuda Triangle,” by Charles Berlitz. I was surprised to read how planes and ships, some within sight of land, totally disappeared. Then I found other source materials which also made the mystery of the Bermuda Triangle more fascinating. 
 
I learned from my research that the U.S. Coast Guard, which officially does not believe in the Bermuda Triangle, nevertheless identifies its location to those requesting information about it in their form letter File No. 5720, from the 7th Coast Guard District. It states the following: 
 
“The Bermuda or Devil’s Triangle is an imaginary area located off the southeastern Atlantic coast of the U.S. which is noted for a high incidence of unexplained losses of ships, small boats and aircraft. The apexes of the triangle are generally accepted to be Bermuda, Miami, Florida, and San Juan Puerto Rico.” The attitude of the Coast Guard, which states that “officially” the Bermuda Triangle doesn’t exist, however, “this is its location,” certainly adds to the mystery. 
 
Disappearance of ships began to be recorded after the Civil War. But it was <TIMEX3 tid="t2" type="DURATION" value="PXM">a few months</TIMEX3> after World War II that a startling incident occurred, suggesting that planes flying over the area could vanish from the sky for perhaps the same reason that ships had been vanishing from the sea. Six U.S. Navy planes and their crews disappeared in the Triangle on <TIMEX3 tid="t4" type="DATE" value="1945-12-05">Dec. 5, 1945</TIMEX3>. It was the key incident that aroused attention and interest in the area that gave the Bermuda Triangle its name. 
 
Some readers may recall seeing a simulated presentation on TV, or read about the unusual disappearance of the six Navy planes. The first five planes that disappeared were on a routine training mission. They had been ordered to follow a triangular flight pattern, starting at the Naval Air Station at Fort Lauderdale, Fla., then 160 miles to the east over the Atlantic, 40 miles to the north and back to the air base, following a southwest course. After the disappearance of the five planes, a giant rescue plane, a Martin Mariner with a crew of 13, vanished in the same area during the rescue attempt. The five missing planes were Navy Grumman Avenger Torpedo Bombers, manned by five officer pilots and nine enlisted crew members. One enlisted crewman had a premonition about the flight and begged off going. Each aircraft carried plenty of fuel to cruise at least a thousand miles. Pilots who had flown earlier that day reported ideal flying weather. 
 
Flight time was estimated at <TIMEX3 tid="t9" type="DURATION" value="PT2H">two hours</TIMEX3> for this mission. Lt. Charles Taylor with more than 2,500 hours flying time, who was in command, led the planes to Chicken Shoals, north of the Island of Bimini, where the first part of their mission was to make practice runs on a target hulk. Pilots and crew were experienced airmen, and there was no reason to expect anything of an unusual nature to happen during the routine mission. 
 
But something unusual did happen. The tower operator at the Naval Air Station received an unusual radio message from Lt. Taylor. The tower record has the following: “Flight leader calling tower. This is an emergency! We seem to be off course. We cannot see land. Repeat. We cannot see land!” Tower: “What is your position?” Flight leader: “We are not sure of our position. We seem to be lost.” Tower: “Assume a heading due west.” Flight leader: “We don’t know which way is west. Everything is wrong. A strange white haze. Even the ocean doesn’t look as it should.” 
 
Then it became increasingly difficult to hear messages from the tower to the flight because of static. However, tower personnel could hear portions of transmissions between the lost planes, telling each other that their aircraft’s magnetic and gyro compasses were crazy and showing erratic and different readings. 
 
Finally, the tower heard the flight leader say to the others, “We must have passed over Florida and are out over the Gulf of Mexico.” The flight leader then apparently decided to turn in the wrong direction in the hope of flying back to Florida. But as they did so, their radio transmissions began to get fainter, indicating that they had made a wrong turn and were flying away from Florida. The final transmissions heard were: “Entering white water — we are completely lost.” 
 
Joseph A. Diblin, of Northumberland, was a four-engine pilot during World War II and has worked as a test pilot and civilian flight instructor. He is also seaplane rated. If you are a veteran — Korea, Vietnam, World War, Iraq, etc. — and would like to share your story, please contact him at 570-473-<TIMEX3 tid="t10" type="DATE" value="2594">2594</TIMEX3>. 
</TimeML>
