<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE TimeML SYSTEM "TimeML.dtd">
<TimeML>
O A Bildungsroman, it lays out four parallel lives of Archibald Isaac Ferguson, born of Russian-Jewish descent in New Jersey in <TIMEX3 tid="t1" type="DATE" value="1947">1947</TIMEX3>. An early chapter ends after an uncle burgles his father’s white goods store; the next chapter rewinds the narrative, with the store burned down, not robbed. Auster replays it a third time – the store burns down with Ferguson’s father inside – before a final alternative shows the business thriving.

We’re lured in by Auster’s fine-grained scene-setting and intrigue at his intentions. The perspective is puzzling: we’re inside the protagonist’s mind but also told of what he was "still too young at that point to understand". We’re curious, too, as to what Auster means when he says Ferguson’s parents appear "in the all-inclusive, authorised edition of The Book of Terrestrial Life", a strange-sounding work that remains mysterious when it appears for the fifth and final time some 700 pages later.

By that time, 4321 has long settled into a largely unsurprising coming-of-age tale of sexual longing and literary ambition. Auster gives us heft without density: there are few stakes in this Borgesian garden of forking paths. The hero might sleep with Amy Schneiderman or Brian Mischevski; go to Columbia or Princeton; become a basketball reporter or a movie critic; get killed in a road accident or only maimed, but the story lines cancel each other out instead of adding substance. The sentences, plausibly inspired by what Auster has called Kleist’s "great hatchet-blows of thought", usually run about half the length of this review and often a good deal longer. But Kleist’s model sits ill with Auster’s preoccupations. Where Kleist’s <TIMEX3 tid="t2" type="DATE" value="1810">1810</TIMEX3> novella Michael Kohlhaas "tells and tells" us about its hero’s bloody rampage, 4321 tells and tells us about Ferguson’s first taste of couscous or about how good he is at "parallel parking, the tight-squeeze operation that was the downfall of so many would-be motorists". You can fill 864 pages pretty quickly writing like this.

While there’s an everyman tint to Ferguson, Auster is keen to show how special he is, whatever the incarnation. A girl from Brussels with "breasts fuller than might have been expected" tells him he knows "10 times more than any 10 of these idiot Americans put together" when he brings up Leopold II’s atrocities in the Congo (guess what the girl does next?). The "finest literary mind in Princeton" says it’s "a privilege" to meet him after reading his student short stories. When a prostitute says he’s "a good-looking boy with a pretty pecker", there’s no question she doesn’t mean it.

As the last Ferguson standing makes it into the Nixon era, the novel’s girth guarantees suspense: how will Auster play the hand he’s spent so long assembling? That the novel should hymn the power of imagination is hardly a shock – he’s been here before – but in a book that is longer than his last three novels put together, the finale has the air of a bad joke. I can’t tell if it’s better or worse that he seems utterly sincere.

• 4321 by Paul Auster is published by Faber (£20). To order a copy for £15 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
</TimeML>
