<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE TimeML SYSTEM "TimeML.dtd">
<TimeML>
In the world, Bangkok is considered as a shopper’s paradise. Bangkok bazaar is the shopping area in Noida that has been designed to provide unbelievably priced commodities of all categories. Galaxy Bangkok Bazaar is an extensive shopping mall along the expressway which provides high street retail shops for all kinds of retailers. The retail shop is available from two-hundred square feet onward that are designed and constructed in a different way to reflect the architectural glory and culture of Bangkok. These shopping malls in Noida are ideal for all kinds of imported as well as Indian merchandise. In Bangkok, the shopping mall is designed with glamor and shopping spree of the market areas the builders has taken initiative to develop a similar market in Noida where sellers and buyers can experience the same essence of Bangkok streets. The Bazaar features high street retail shops which are ideally priced to accommodate all kinds of retailers. The retail shops are beautifully constructed and designed based on Thai theme to evoke the feel of real Bangkok markets. The shopping mall provides a high-street shopping plaza, office spaces, bank spaces, and other commercial spaces for educational institutes, ATMs etc situated near Kisan chowk with huge catchment area. 
 
In Galaxy Bangkok Bazaar Noida Extension, the retail shops are available with hundred percent lease guarantee. On the top retail floors, lies an extensive food court with cuisines along with a multiplex, banquet and kid’s zone. Then bazaar office spaces are also exclusively designed to create a global corporate zone in the heart of Noida. Galaxy group is reputed, trusted and reliable brand in this field. They dedicated to delivering high-end real estate a development, both commercial and residential, this builder brand believes in innovation, quality construction and ahead of features. The galaxy group takes a unique approach to design and construct their infrastructure to create an architectural allure for the society. The shopping mall is offering retail shops and offices spaces beside twelve-screen multiplex with exclusive food court, hypermarket, pub and a restaurant sprawling across its five floors with different sizes at Noida. The mall has office spaces, service apartment with balcony, air conditioned units, and studio apartment. The facilities of the commercial center are a powerhouse of the commercial activities that give a huge boost towards the up gradation of the landscape of Noida extension.  At Noida extension has excellent location as the site is three sides open plot, just <TIMEX3 tid="t1" type="DURATION" value="PTXM">a few minutes</TIMEX3>’ drive from popular road networks in the region. For more details visits Builder in Noida .
</TimeML>
