<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE TimeML SYSTEM "TimeML.dtd">
<TimeML>
The North Tonawanda Board of Education has announced that it will hold a special meeting to vote on whether the district should voice opposition to President Donald Trump’s nomination of Betsy DeVos for education secretary. 
 
Board President Michele Golding said several school boards throughout the state are passing similar resolutions. She said DeVos “is not a friend of public education” and that her history would indicate that she’s not the most qualified person for the job. The board will convene at <TIMEX3 tid="t3" type="TIME" value="2017-01-23T17:30">5:30 p.m. Monday</TIMEX3> at the district’s administration building at 176 Walk Road to discuss the resolution. 
 
“We need someone who can champion public schools. I don’t think (DeVos) is qualified for that,” Golding said. “She comes from a very wealthy family, she’s spent a lot of money undermining public education and I really think she’s done nothing to improve the quality of children’s education in Michigan. I can’t imagine, going across 50 states, what she’d do to funding, programs and all the good things the federal government does in support of in public education.” 
 
Though she declined to state whether she felt the motion was likely to pass, she said that many people in the district have told her they worry about what DeVos could do if she is appointed to the top position of the U.S. Department of Education. 
 
Other board members also say they have to discuss the matter before deciding what to do as a collective entity. However, in her capacity as a U.S. citizen, not as a board member, Ann Finkle said she doesn’t like DeVos’ “background for public education.” 
 
Both Golding and Superintendent Gregory Woytila said the idea stemmed from an initiative organized by a number of school board associations. Golding said the purpose of voting on their own resolution is to join other districts in demanding the education secretary post be filled by someone with better qualifications. 
 
One group speaking out against DeVos is the New York State School Board Association. On <TIMEX3 tid="t4" type="DATE" value="2017-01-09">Jan. 9</TIMEX3>, NYSSBA Executive Director Timothy Kremer sent a letter to U.S. Sens. Charles Schumer and Kristen Gillibrand sharing the results of survey conducted among more than 400 of its members, hoping the representatives would use the information when determining DeVos’ future with the education department. 
 
“Overwhelmingly, our members and partners oppose Ms. Devos’ nomination; 86 percent are opposed,” Kremer wrote in the letter. “Moreover, the vast majority of our respondents do not feel that she possess the qualifications necessary to hold this position.”
</TimeML>
