<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE TimeML SYSTEM "TimeML.dtd">
<TimeML>
City plans to install medians on the most congest part of Lake Havasu Avenue address only a small part of a bigger issue involving traffic flow through that part of town. 
   
Assuming the project goes forward, it will take months to complete and is tentatively scheduled for the busiest traffic months of the year, beginning <TIMEX3 tid="t2" type="DATE" value="2017-11">next November</TIMEX3>. 
   
During that time, traffic will be disrupted, thus adding fuel for complaints. 
   
Complaints? Median became the equivalent of a four-letter word back when the city proposed them for upper McCulloch Boulevard and some of that emotional baggage remains. 
   
Truthfully, medians are not that big of a deal. Few complain about them, for example, on other commercial sections of McCulloch Boulevard. 
   
Medians that limit left turns from Lake Havasu Avenue may help reduce accidents and help with overall traffic flow, allowing more green light time for those moving through that congested stretch of traffic signals. 
   
For the plan to work optimally, it needs to be done in conjunction with the Arizona Department of Transportation, which controls State Route 95 and its traffic signals. The timing of those signals, a bane to residents and visitors who simply want to get from one side of town to another, must be improved to work with the changing traffic flow. 
   
The highway and Lake Havasu Avenue are the two main and most direct thoroughfares connecting northern and southern parts of the city. An increase in traffic and traffic signals produces several traffic bottlenecks, the most pronounced of which are in the area between Mesquite and Swanson avenues. 
   
The tone for the congested areas is set by the timing of signals further north and south, including the confusing and maddening mess where Mulberry Avenue intersects the highway. 
   
The entire highway needs better signal synchronization. 
   
The Mulberry mess may require more than that. It may need an overpass to connect traffic on Lake Havasu Avenue and the highway. 
   
None of them would be improved with traffic circles, which we mention only because they seem to be ADOT’s <TIMEX3 tid="t12" type="DATE" value="PRESENT_REF">currently</TIMEX3> preferred option for traffic control elsewhere. 
   
In considering the Lake Havasu Avenue medians, the city may wish to do the project in a way that can be easily undone when, not if, future traffic needs warrant more reconfiguration. To that end, minimal-width median barriers with “no left turn” signs may be enough to address immediate needs. 
   
The purpose of roads is to move traffic. If some median work helps, great. The project needs to be cost effective. It must anticipate the disruption, especially including the extra north-south traffic that will use the highway during the construction. ADOT needs to be a prime partner and must arrange highway signals to efficiently move the extra traffic. 
   
— Today’s News-Herald
</TimeML>
