<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE TimeML SYSTEM "TimeML.dtd">
<TimeML>
Image Courtesy: BCCI 
 
India's defeat at Kanpur will hopefully be a wake-up call for them. The batsmen got starts but didn't convert that into a substantial innings and the bowlers had too few runs to defend. 
 
The last time India played at Nagpur they were spun out by the New Zealanders and Mitchell Santner was making the ball turn at sharp angles. The pitch may be better this time around but it should turn a lot more than at the Eden Gardens (Kolkata) and Green Park (Kanpur). So Adil Rashid who didn't get to bowl at Kanpur may get to roll his arm over. Yuzvendra Chahal will be likely to exploit it more than his off-spinning partner Parvez Rasool who bowls too flat and a bit fast to get the ball to turn. 
  
It's India's batsmen though who have to win the game for their team. KL Rahul's form has dipped alarmingly and Nagpur provides a great opportunity to turn it around. Yuvraj Singh does not have to prove anything to anybody but he has set such high standards and such are the expectations from him especially in this format that unless he gets a few sixes in it's considered a failure. 
 
The worry is the ease with which England cantered to the win in Kanpur. They were barely stretched and the way they plotted the dismissals of the Indians was terrific. Not much was given to the Indians in the arc of their bat swing which is what the Indian batsmen like. 
 
England's batting too hardly broke a sweat and skipper Eoin Morgan batted brilliantly. Like Yuvraj, he too can and does play the pull shot off the front foot and so the bowler has very little room for error on length. 
 
England have had a forgettable Test series and lost closely <TIMEX3 tid="t7" type="DURATION" value="P1D">the one-day</TIMEX3> series and so they will want to finish the tour on a high with a win in the T20 series. They are looking very good indeed and the Indians will have to lift their game considerably if they want to thwart England's ambitions. 
 
Stay updated on the go with Sify Live Scores App. Click here to download it for your device
</TimeML>
