<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE TimeML SYSTEM "TimeML.dtd">
<TimeML>
President Donald Trump’s first week hasn’t been much of a honeymoon, and it’s mostly his fault. 
 
But there is one major accomplishment – however inadvertent – for which he deserves some credit: He has been the catalyst for the mainstream media to rediscover their role as a watchdog instead of a lapdog. 
 
I’m glad to see it. The role of the press, especially the political press, is to be skeptical of everything. To question everything. To refuse to get sucked into carrying water for politicians’ narratives in exchange for access to supposed “scoops.” 
 
And it has been <TIMEX3 tid="t2" type="DURATION" value="P1W">a week</TIMEX3> of unbridled skepticism – of questioning everything. 
 
When Trump claimed it stopped raining moments after he began his inaugural address, the press showed otherwise. 
 
When Trump claimed (again) that he lost the popular vote because millions of illegal immigrants voted, all the newscasts carried comments from Republicans and Democrats declaring it both outrageous and unsubstantiated. 
 
When Trump and his press secretary, Sean Spicer, claimed that attendance at his inaugural was the highest in history, the press pounced again, with photos and video that showed it wasn’t true. 
 
When presidential counselor Kellyanne Conway appeared on NBC’s “Meet the Press” and tried to argue that Spicer had simply been providing some “alternative facts” to the media accounts, host Chuck Todd exploded. 
 
“Wait <TIMEX3 tid="t4" type="DURATION" value="PT1M">a minute</TIMEX3>,” he yelled. “Alternative facts? Alternative facts? Four of the five facts he uttered were just not true. Look, alternative facts are not facts! They’re falsehoods!” 
 
Amen! Preach it, brother Todd! Speak truth to power! 
 
These were not cosmic, world-shaking lies. They were more about Trump massaging his ego than the policy stuff that supposedly has millions of Americans “terrified” of his presidency. 
 
But they are still important. There are no small lies, in my view. Someone who is willing to lie about small things will lie about big things. 
 
One of the first lessons I learned from my journalistic mentor was that simply misspelling someone’s name in a news story is a very big deal. “If you can’t even spell somebody’s name right, why should anybody trust anything else in the story?” he said. 
 
The same applies to what is frequently called political “spin.” If you shade the truth on something little, there is no reason to trust you on the big things. 
 
So, good for the media for going after the lies. 
 
However – and it is a very big however – the problem for the press is that its sudden willingness to do the job it is supposed to do all the time is undermining its credibility even more than before. It makes it clear that it is personal. The press can’t stand Trump, and it practically worshiped President Obama. 
 
Sure, the media did some “fact-checking” of Obama. But overall, once they had reported on a lie, they dropped it. They were much more consistent, loud and repetitive about the “progressive” narrative that those who opposed Obama were doing so simply because they were racists and bigots. 
 
Perhaps Obama’s most famous lie was his declaration, multiple times, that “if you like your health plan, you can keep your health plan. If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor.” 
 
PolitiFact, which is supposedly nonpartisan on truth as opposed to “alternative facts,” finally got around to calling it the “lie of the year” in <TIMEX3 tid="t5" type="DATE" value="2013">2013</TIMEX3>, after concluding six previous times that it was true. 
 
But I don’t recall the host of any major mainstream news show like “Meet the Press” yelling at a presidential spokesperson about spreading “falsehoods” about something vastly more significant than attendance at an inaugural. 
 
As long as we’re all supposed to be “terrified” about Trump promising to enforce immigration laws, why weren’t we hearing much more about the truly terrifying scandal of the Obama administration - the IRS selecting conservative groups for special scrutiny, and lengthy delays, in determining their tax-exempt status? 
 
The most powerful federal agency in the country was targeting groups for their political beliefs. You’d think the press would have latched onto that like a pit bull, which is what it would have done had Trump had been president and the target was liberal groups. 
 
Not with Obama as president. Sure, media reported that Lois Lerner, the IRS director of exempt organizations, took the Fifth numerous times when called before Congress. But few reported on the preposterous story lines that emerged, of “lost” emails. Or that she was never fired but simply “asked to resign,” and refused, so was then placed on paid leave. She retired shortly after that with a full pension. 
 
No speaking truth to power about that. No insistent, ongoing questions about why nobody was held accountable. It all went away. 
 
I don’t recall any mainstream media stars yelling about Obama’s demonstrably false claim in the final months of his presidency that his administration had been free of scandal. That “alternative fact” is apparently OK. 
 
Much the same was true about Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton’s multiple lies about her use of a private email server. Yes, the Washington Post (not a right-wing news outlet) did list them in a post by its fact checker. 
 
But Clinton challenger, Sen. Bernie Sanders, got vastly more press when he said during a debate, “the American people are sick of hearing about your damn emails.” 
 
Whether they were sick of it or not, the press endlessly replayed that line, so the American people would know what to think. 
 
Most Americans, including Trump supporters, want the press to do its job. But if those in the media want to restore some credibility, they need to admit that they didn’t do it very well for <TIMEX3 tid="t7" type="DURATION" value="P8Y">the past eight years</TIMEX3>. 
 
Taylor Armerding is an independent columnist. Contact him at t.armerding@verizon.net
</TimeML>
