<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE TimeML SYSTEM "TimeML.dtd">
<TimeML>
DW just posted this on Corey’s FB page (I found no new DW FB post). Here is the original Kp blog post about this. The video they speak of included in the FB post linked below. 

[CG] ““I started doing much better very soon after you posted the request for prayers. Ka’ Aree told me (telepathy) to be calm, She was observing the situation and I would be okay.” 

[DW] “…this does NOT appear to be a ‘normal’ event. We had a major aerospace conference that “just so happened” to be at our hotel at the same time that we were taping. Check out the video Corey shot of what he could see while walking around the common lobby area of the hotel. It was an SAS Aerospace Conference. Some “very big names” were there. 

“…my close friend had a dream where Corey was being attacked by an 8-foot-tall agent-type being — with a heart attack weapon. He was warned in the strongest terms to stay away from what in the dream was a very dark and foreboding area that Corey had willingly walked into, oblivious to the danger. 

“…add to it that I had announced major breakthroughs in our work, and that I was going to a funeral, the day before this happened… your prayers and loving thoughts are still urgently needed. Thank you.” 

——————————————————– 

I’m doing much, much better! Thank all of you for the prayers and healing energy. I felt it! CG 

DW: COREY GOODE EMERGENCY ROOM UPDATE: Thanks to your immediate support, his condition is stabilizing. Corey just told me the following via text: 

“I started doing much better very soon after you posted the request for prayers. Ka’ Aree told me (telepathy) to be calm, She was observing the situation and I would be okay.” 

That being said, this does NOT appear to be a ‘normal’ event. We had a major aerospace conference that “just so happened” to be at our hotel at the same time that we were taping. 

Check out the video Corey shot of what he could see while walking around the common lobby area of the hotel. It was an SAS Aerospace Conference. Some “very big names” were there. 

We also have a photo of the two of us in front of the sign at the entrance, which I added here as a “custom thumbnail”. 

Then add to this that my close friend had a dream where Corey was being attacked by an 8-foot-tall agent-type being — with a heart attack weapon. 

He was warned in the strongest terms to stay away from what in the dream was a very dark and foreboding area that Corey had willingly walked into, oblivious to the danger. 

Corey heard this dream, which occurred the day before his ER visit, but did not know what to make of it at the time. 

Then add to it that I had announced major breakthroughs in our work, and that I was going to a funeral, the day before this happened. The episode occurred just <TIMEX3 tid="t1" type="DURATION" value="PT2H">two hours</TIMEX3> after the funeral. 

We appear to have avoided disaster this time, but your prayers and loving thoughts are still urgently needed. Thank you. 

Filed under: apocalypse, disclosure, new energies, partners in contrast Tagged: Corey Goode, David Wilcock, Divinecosmos.com, Sphere Being Alliance
</TimeML>
