<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE TimeML SYSTEM "TimeML.dtd">
<TimeML>
According to a <TIMEX3 tid="t1" type="DATE" value="PAST_REF">recent</TIMEX3> study by the American Psychological Association (APA), approximately 75 per cent of Americans are stressed about their finances. This appears to have caused a change in the sex drive of 11 per cent of the sample survey. So if I were to ask you, “How is your money feeling?” would you say, “It’s not in the mood?” 
 
I don’t think you would disagree that money problems can put a real damper on the love department or on your general feelings of motivation. In fact, these problems may even lead to a general sense of apathy about life. It’s as if you just can’t bother because of the financial strain. 
 
According to personal finance expert and “Money Girl” podcaster Laura Adams, there are four primary reasons that cause people to get stressed about money: 
 
1) They consistently spend more than they make, living under the threat of ever-present bill collectors. 
 
2) They spend exactly what they make, living from pay cheque to pay cheque. 
 
3) They have a huge amount of debt (eg student loans) and are finding it hard to make any progress on reducing it. 
 
4) They don’t understand how to manage their finances and feel lost or overwhelmed about how to proceed. 
 
These realities can create a sense of being stuck, confused, and unable to make a move. We are so overwhelmed by the enormity of our problems that we forget about the positives in our life. So you may already know what your financial issues are, but where are your financial strengths? Ever thought about that? 
 
Psychologists Kris Hallbom and Armand D’Alo note that many people tend to focus on the negatives and delete the positives. Over time, people continue to focus their thoughts in one direction and delete everything else. We are creatures of deletion. Eventually, people forget to focus on the positive. 
 
So you are in a dead-end job and cannot pay your bills. You forget that you are very good at baking or have a wonderful speaking voice. And so the financial stress grows and not your options, because you can’t see the positives. 
 
Personally, I think that’s why corporations do much better than individuals, as the corporate structure harnesses many minds, while individuals tend to rely solely on themselves. 
 
And that’s not really a bad thing if you are willing to do the work and reach out to a support team such as a financial coach or financial advisor who can help you to see different possibilities in your life. 
 
It’s important to consciously open yourself up to the idea of what is possible for you. In order to embrace this idea, you must first have the ability to change your daily routine by doing something different. This includes learning how to view your world through the eyes of prosperity and abundance, instead of deprivation and poverty. 
 
Try this on for a moment: 
 
Think about something that you want and all of the possibilities that exist for you to achieve it. Ask yourself, “What is possible?” 
 
Remember, thinking about what is possible rather than what is the problem requires practice and an open mind. And so you don’t have to go it alone, as I stated above, and just maybe, your money will start to feel better. 
 
Dennise Williams, MBA (Banking & Finance) is a journalist, TV producer, certified practitioner NLP coach and has <TIMEX3 tid="t9" type="DURATION" value="P15Y">15 years</TIMEX3>’ experience in the financial services industry. You can see more of her work at www.youtube.com/financiallyfocused.
</TimeML>
