<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE TimeML SYSTEM "TimeML.dtd">
<TimeML>
  
Panasonic received the Emirates Quality Mark for its wiring devices, demonstrating the company’s commitment to product excellence and customer safety. 
 
Panasonic Homes & Living offers a broad spectrum of Switches & Sockets, LED Lightings, Switchgears, Solar Panels, Energy Recovery Ventilators (ERV), Air Moving Equipment (AME), Ventilation Fans, and Ceiling Fans & Electric Fans. Ranked no 2 globally for wiring devices, Panasonic has been strongly catering to the ever changing demands of Middle East Construction sector. The brand actions to deliver best-value-for-money options with unmatched quality and these products are a reflection of the company’s commitment to offer innovative and sustainable solutions that boast comfort, safety and durability. 

Implemented by the Emirates Authority for Standardization and Metrology (ESMA), Emirates Quality Mark certification includes a rigorous process that ensures imported and locally-produced products meet strict UAE, GCC, and international standards. 

The process includes a thorough check of product quality and conformity to the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) standards. ESMA certification enables companies to use the Emirates Mark of Conformity on their certified products. 

ESMA’s Director of Conformity Affairs Department Mr. Essa Abdul Rahman Al Hashmi awarded the certification to Mr Tatsuya Kumazawa - Sales Director, Panasonic Eco Solutions Middle East & Africa (PESMAF). 

Commenting on the prestigious certification, Mr Kumazawa said, “As a Japanese brand which is nearly 100 years old, Panasonic, prides itself in providing products that conform to the highest quality standards. Our high quality standards and credibility enables us to cater globally complying with strict safety regulations. 

“The ESMA certification will provide much needed assurance and ‘peace-of-mind’ for our customers in the region”. He added. 

Commenting on awarding the certification, Mr. Essa Abdul Rahman Al Hashmi - Director of Conformity Affairs Department at ESMA, said: “ESMA has been responsible for regulating various products with the latest addition being the wiring devices. As per the new regulation, it is mandatory to have ESMA’s ECAS or EQM certification. Panasonic’s products have complied with our certification requirements and can be considered safe for use. As the first brand to receive the Emirates Quality Mark, Panasonic’s strict standards have raised the bar for wiring devices across the GCC”. 

Product quality is an essential part of Panasonic’s management philosophy, embodied in the company’s code of conduct and overseen by chief quality officers who are responsible for the company’s quality assurance system. 

Panasonic’s wiring devices are distributed by Advance Establishment for Lighting & Electricals in UAE. Founded in <TIMEX3 tid="t4" type="DATE" value="1998">1998</TIMEX3> as an EHY group subsidiary (a Kuwaiti group), Advance Establishment’s countrywide distribution network offers a complete range of Panasonic wiring devices, including BS and A&C type switches and sockets. 

 
Website : 
http://www.esma.gov.ae
</TimeML>
