<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE TimeML SYSTEM "TimeML.dtd">
<TimeML>
Victor D. Infante Telegram & Gazette Staff @ocvictor  
Increasingly, it’s becoming harder and harder to take water for granted. In Flint, Michigan, lead contamination poisoned the drinking water supply. California, the nation’s largest agricultural producing state, has wrestled with a drought for <TIMEX3 tid="t1" type="DURATION" value="P5Y">five years</TIMEX3>, and we’ve even dealt with a drought here in Worcester. And then there’s Standing Rock Indian Reservation in North Dakota, where members of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe have led a protest against the construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline, which they argue is a threat to their clean water supply, as well as to their ancestral burial grounds. Water, which seemingly runs so freely when you turn the tap, is suddenly among the country’s most heatedly political things. 
 
There have been numerous attempts to capture the conflicts brewing around water in song, but most attempts have landed flatly, cliché protest songs with very little depth. But somehow, Worcester musician Sean Ryder has managed to capture the urgency with his new song and music video, “Water is Life (Boots are on the Ground).” 
 
“Water isn't sacred anymore,” sings Ryder, “The river's black with oil and with blood./We can't drink that filth anymore./Bodies buried deep beneath the mud.” 
 
In many ways, it’s a straight-up traditional protest song, born out of the large-scale protests that subsided when the Obama administration denied the project an easement to continue construction. Those protests are beginning to mobilize again, with President Trump’s executive order to continue the project, so this song is particularly well-timed. 
 
There’s a tension between Ryder’s restrained vocals and his fuzzed-out, heavily distorted guitar that gives the song a rich texture. Ryder imbues each verse with a sort of melancholy, one accentuated by the video’s use of footage from the protests, including footage of armed soldiers and police officers attacking protesters, who are being beaten, pelted with tear gas and sprayed with hoses. 
 
“They'll tear us down swinging black batons,” shouts Ryder, as the video reflects the reality of what he’s singing, “shoot pepper spray and tear gas in the crowd./Fire rubber bullets at our heads./Each wound a scar we'll wear it strong and proud.” 
 
It’s not a happy song, but then, it’s not a happy situation, and it’s one that’s set to begin again imminently. But even as Ryder offers the ominous refrain, “boots are on the ground” — casting the situation as an act of war, being waged against the indigenous population — one can still find a spark of hope burning in the song, a sense that, even though the odds are overwhelming, defiance isn’t a lost cause. 
 
Email Victor D. Infante at Victor.Infante@Telegram.com, and follow him on Twitter @ocvictor.
</TimeML>
